README.md, before:

# metrics.dataverse.org

## Introduction

https://dataverse.org/metrics only shows metrics for Harvard Dataverse but our goal is to show metrics for all installations of Dataverse around the world that are interested in displaying them.

Dataverse 4.9 and higher exposes metrics via API as JSON using a Metrics API that is documented at http://guides.dataverse.org/en/4.9.2/api/metrics.html

Now that some Dataverse installations have been upgraded to 4.9 and higher, we can start to use the code in this repo to host a service that aggregates metrics across various Dataverse installations.

## Requirements

- Python 2 or Python 3

## Getting Started

Clone the repo:

    git clone https://github.com/IQSS/metrics.dataverse.org.git

Change to the directory you just created:

    cd metrics.dataverse.org

Copy `config.json.sample` to `config.json` and edit the following values:

- `installations`: An array of Dataverse installation URLs.
- `api_response_cache_dir`: Fully qualified directory where JSON files representing API responses will be stored.
- `aggregate_output_dir`: Fully qualified directory where TSV output files of aggregated metrics will be stored.
- `num_months_to_process`: For monthly metrics, the number of months to go back in time to download metrics from each Dataverse installation.
- `endpoints`: An array of Metrics API endpoints to process. Note that the three types are `single` (e.g. `datasets/bySubject`), `monthly` (e.g. `downloads/toMonth`) and `monthly_itemized` (at the time of the writing, the only supported endpoint of this type is `datasets/bySubject/toMonth` - this is a hybrid of the first two types, where the `datasets/bySubjects` metrics are broken down by month). 
- `blacklists`: Arrays of terms to blacklist. Only the `datasets/bySubject` endpoint can have a blacklist.

Now that your `config.json` file is ready, run the `metrics.py` script to create a TSV file for each of the `endpoints`, which will be placed in the `aggregate_output_dir` directory:

    python3 metrics.py

(Please note that if you don't have Python 3 installed, Python 2 should work fine too but Python 3 is highly recommended because Python 2 will not be maintained past January 1, 2020 according to https://pythonclock.org and [PEP 373][].)

## Contributing

We love contributors! Please see our [Contributing Guide][] for ways you can help and check out the to do list below.

## To Do

- Add license.
- Drop support for Python 2. See https://python3statement.org

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/IQSS/metrics.dataverse.org.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/IQSS/metrics.dataverse.org)

[Contributing Guide]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[PEP 373]: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0373/

Commit message:

show friendly names for installations #4

README.md, after:

# metrics.dataverse.org

## Introduction

https://dataverse.org/metrics only shows metrics for Harvard Dataverse but our goal is to show metrics for all installations of Dataverse around the world that are interested in displaying them.

Dataverse 4.9 and higher exposes metrics via API as JSON using a Metrics API that is documented at http://guides.dataverse.org/en/4.9.2/api/metrics.html

Now that some Dataverse installations have been upgraded to 4.9 and higher, we can start to use the code in this repo to host a service that aggregates metrics across various Dataverse installations.

## Requirements

- Python 2 or Python 3

## Getting Started

Clone the repo:

    git clone https://github.com/IQSS/metrics.dataverse.org.git

Change to the directory you just created:

    cd metrics.dataverse.org

Copy `config.json.sample` to `config.json` and edit the following values:

- `installations`: An array of Dataverse installation URLs.
- `api_response_cache_dir`: Fully qualified directory where JSON files representing API responses will be stored.
- `aggregate_output_dir`: Fully qualified directory where TSV output files of aggregated metrics will be stored.
- `num_months_to_process`: For monthly metrics, the number of months to go back in time to download metrics from each Dataverse installation.
- `endpoints`: An array of Metrics API endpoints to process. Note that the three types are `single` (e.g. `datasets/bySubject`), `monthly` (e.g. `downloads/toMonth`) and `monthly_itemized` (at the time of the writing, the only supported endpoint of this type is `datasets/bySubject/toMonth` - this is a hybrid of the first two types, where the `datasets/bySubjects` metrics are broken down by month). 
- `blacklists`: Arrays of terms to blacklist. Only the `datasets/bySubject` endpoint can have a blacklist.

Now that your `config.json` file is ready, run the `metrics.py` script to create a TSV file for each of the `endpoints`, which will be placed in the `aggregate_output_dir` directory:

    python3 metrics.py

(Please note that if you don't have Python 3 installed, Python 2 should work fine too but Python 3 is highly recommended because Python 2 will not be maintained past January 1, 2020 according to https://pythonclock.org and [PEP 373][].)

The list of Dataverse installations depends on `all-dataverse-installations.json` which can be updated with the following script as new installations are added to the [map][]:

    ./update-all-installations-list.sh

## Contributing

We love contributors! Please see our [Contributing Guide][] for ways you can help and check out the to do list below.

## To Do

- Add license.
- Drop support for Python 2. See https://python3statement.org

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/IQSS/metrics.dataverse.org.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/IQSS/metrics.dataverse.org)

[map]: https://dataverse.org
[Contributing Guide]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[PEP 373]: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0373/
